# Risk-Parity-Investment-Portfolio-in-Python

It’s common that investors tend to put more weight on equity compared to bonds as they think stocks generate higher returns over a long enough period of time. But in fact, bonds have a higher Sharpe ratio than equities, which means bonds provide higher excess return per unit of risk. Based on this finding, we can scale up the risk of the bond portfolio so it has the same risk as the equity one. As a result, the bond portfolio provides higher returns than equity under the same risk level. 

The Risk-Parity strategy uses the same idea to build investment portfolios by allocating weights to different assets based on their risk contribution through optimizations. The objective here is to ensure each asset has equal risk contribution as 1/N (N is the number of assets within the portfolio) Generally, there are two types: Classical Risk Parity and Hierarchical Risk Parity. 

Here I use six assets, among which two are equity ETFs (VGT - Vanguard Information Technology ETF and QQQ - Invesco QQQ Trust), two are bond ETFs (VCIT - Vanguard Intermediate-Term Corporate Bond ETF, BNDX - Vanguard Total International Bond ETF, and AGG - iShares Core U.S. Aggregate Bond ETF), and one commodity ETF (GLD - SPDR Gold Shares). The rolling time window is 90 days and the model will be rebalanced monthly. Data source comes from yahoo finance dating from 2013/03/ to 2023/03/01. The risk parity objective functions have several constraints, for example, each asset accounted for more than 10% and Exponential Weighted Moving Average (EWMA) method was applied to calculate the covariance matrix for risk contribution.
